he was an atheist and a communist who
shocked the world in 1964
that's when filmmaker Viet Paolo
Pasolini released a controversial movie
titled the Gospel according to st.
Matthew true to its name it deals with
the biblical text without omissions or
add-ons but what surprised people even
more was who he dedicated the film to it
read to my dear cheerful and familiar
memories of john xxiii the film was
released 50 years ago in light of the
anniversary the Vatican's newspaper
described it as the best film about
Jesus it's a beautiful film it's a
representation of Christ produced by a
non Catholic but it has strong
spirituality and humanity Christ is
depicted as a true human a human and
divine Christ it's simple and a great
work of art to have in our film library
as part of the celebration the Vatican
film library has conducted a detailed
restoration of the actual film which
stretches to almost 5000 feet after
eight months it's ready for its close-up
we cleaned out the film by hand which is
the first thing we usually do to brush
off the debris then we poured some
liquid on it to restore its elasticity
and to take away any stains we also
changed the box it was kept in because
sometimes it can cause even more damage
once we finished everything we noticed
that there were big improvements then we
transferred it and made it digital it's
a unique film even the actor who played
Jesus had an interesting background he
wasn't a professional actor instead he
was a young Spanish anarchist
the filmmakers own mother portrayed the
Virgin Mary furthermore boswell Eenie
refused to shoot the film in a fake
setting he turned to the Italian city of
Medina to the picture ISM
in 1964 the film premiered at the Venice
Film Festival it received both equal
criticism and praise he won several
prizes for his work including the
International Catholic Film Festival
you